So our topology is connected, I'll start up all the devices.
What you'll notice is NPM is starting, the GNS3 VM is starting.
So the NPM Windows machine is booted up, the GNS3 VM is booted up
and what I'll do now is open up a console connection to the routers.
So let's start with router 1, what I'm going to do is configure this network as 10.1.1.
0/24.
This network will be 10.1.2.0/24, and this one, 10.1.3.0/24.
I'll also create loop backs on each router
with an IP address that relates to their name. So quadruple 1 for router 1,
quadruple 2 for router 2,
and quadruple 3 for router 3.
Loopbacks are great, these are logical interfaces that don't go down on routers and are very useful for
for management as well as for protocols such as OSPF. So on router 1
create the loopback interface. So quadruple 1
go into the first serial interface, serial 0/0 IP address 10.1.1.1/24 no shut it, go on
to the second interface serial 0/1 IP address 10.1.2.1,
no shut that interface.
I'm going to enable my EIGRP, so router EIGRP 100 network
and I'm going to enable EIGRP in all interfaces and disable automatic summarization. The important
step from a management point of view is to enable SNMP.
So I'm going to say SNMP server community and I'm going to specify a community of NPM
and I'm going to set it to Read-Only
and then I'm going to save the configuration. Do something similar on router 2, so on router 2
loopback 0, IP address
quadruple 2,
interface serial 0/0, IP address 10.1.1.2
no shut it, serial 0/1 IP address 10.1.3.2.
No shut that interface, router EIGRP 100 network and enable EIGRP in all interfaces and disable
automatic summarization.
Last router, router 3
create a loopback interface
quadruple 3
/32 mask, go into the serial interface IP address 10.1.2.3, no shut
it
second serial interface IP address 10.1.3.3
no shut that interface, enable EIGRP on all interfaces, disable automatic summarization,
neighbor relationships are being established
and importantly mustn't forget to type SNMP server community, the community name NPM read-only.
Need to do that on both router 2 and router
3 SNMP server community, NPM Read-Only, and I'll save the configurations.
So that's the initial configuration on our routers, show IP EIGRP neighbors shows me that router
2 has 2 neighbor relationships,
router 1 has 2 neighbor relationships,
and so does router 3, router 3 can ping the loopback of router 1 and the loopback of router 2, router
1 can ping the loopback of router 2 and the loopback of router 3.
So I have configured this network with IP addresses on the serial interfaces and the routers can ping each
other.
The next step is to enable the management network and get NPM to manage the devices.
So to configure the management interface, I'm going to go in the FastEthernet interface of router
1 and give it an IP address of 10.1.100.1/24 mask and save the config, router 2 Fast
Ethernet interface given address of 10.1.100.2/24 mask
save this config
and do something similar on router 3 10.1.100.3/24 mask
save the configuration.
So our devices have booted up, we've connected NPM to the topology, let's test connectivity from
NPM.
So here's my NPM Windows Machine IP config shows me the IP address of 10.1.100.100, ping 10.101
that's router
1 ping succeed, router 2 pings succeed,
router 3 pings succeed.
So NPM has IP connectivity to the three routers using the management network.
Now let's get NPM to discover the devices.
In other words, the three routers.